[docs] Example shared module (#32277)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/docs/examples/shared-module.md

---
title: Shared module
description: How to share modules across code locations.
last_update:
  author: Dennis Hume
sidebar_custom_props:
  logo: images/dagster-primary-mark.svg
  miniProject: true
tags: [mini-project]
---

> In this example, we'll explore strategies for sharing code across Dagster code locations. This is useful when you have utility functions, factories, or helpers that are used in multiple places and you want to avoid duplication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, we'll explore strategies for sharing code across Dagster [code locations](/deployment/code-locations). This is useful when you have utility functions, factories, or helpers that are used in multiple places and you want to avoid duplication.
```

<CodeExample
  path="docs_projects/project_mini/pyproject.toml"
  language="yaml"
  title="pyproject.toml"
  startAfter="start_uv_sources"
  endBefore="end_uv_sources"
/>

Then, inside your code location, you can import and use the shared factory:

<CodeExample
  path="docs_projects/project_mini/src/project_mini/defs/shared_module/shared_module.py"
  language="python"
  title="src/project_mini/defs/assets.py"
/>

This works best when:

- All code locations live in a single repo.
- You want fast iteration without versioning overhead.

### Solution 2: Git Submodule

If each code location exists in its own repository, colocating isn’t an option. Instead, you can maintain the shared library in a separate repository and include it as a Git submodule in each code location repo.

To add the submodule:

```bash
git submodule add git@github.com:my-org/shared.git shared
git commit -am "Add shared submodule"
```

When cloning a repo with submodules:

```bash
git clone --recurse-submodules <repo-url>
```

Or, if you already cloned:

```bash
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

During image builds, the submodule code will be packaged alongside the code location.

> This works best when:

Reviewer: I would move this section above the "To add the submodule" line.

- Each code location lives in its own repo.
- You want to ensure the shared library is always available but don’t need fine-grained versioning.

### Solution 3: External Repository

> For more flexibility and versioning, you can treat your shared module like a standalone library and publish it to a private package registry, such as: [AWS CodeArtifact](https://aws.amazon.com/codeartifact/), [GCP Artifact Registry](https://cloud.google.com/artifact-registry/docs) or [Azure Artifacts](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/devops/artifacts).

Reviewer 2: Could call out that pypi can also be considered if public.

> For more flexibility and versioning, you can treat your shared module like a standalone library and publish it to a private package registry, such as: [AWS CodeArtifact](https://aws.amazon.com/codeartifact/), [GCP Artifact Registry](https://cloud.google.com/artifact-registry/docs) or [Azure Artifacts](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/devops/artifacts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more flexibility and the ability to version the shared code, you can treat your shared module like a standalone library and publish it to a private package registry, such as [AWS CodeArtifact](https://aws.amazon.com/codeartifact/), [GCP Artifact Registry](https://cloud.google.com/artifact-registry/docs), or [Azure Artifacts](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/devops/artifacts).
```

Then, in each code location’s `pyproject.toml`, you can pin a specific version:

```
[project]
dependencies = [
    "shared==0.1.3",
]
```

When you release a new version of the shared module, code locations can explicitly upgrade to it without risk of breaking existing deployments.

> This works best when:

Reviewer: I would also move this benefits section up, similar to the other two solutions.
